# MapReduce
In this, you will use the NYC TLC yellow taxi data set for the year 2017 and perform various operations using the big data tools

Dataset Description


VendorID ->	A code indicating the TPEP provider that provided the record. 1= Creative Mobile Technologies, LLC; 2= VeriFone Inc.

tpep_pickup_datetime ->	The date and time when the meter was engaged

tpep_dropoff_datetime ->	The date and time when the meter was disengaged

passenger_count ->	The number of passengers in the vehicle. This is a driver-entered value

trip_distance ->	The elapsed trip distance in miles reported by the taximeter

RatecodeID	-> The final rate code in effect at the end of the trip.
1= Standard rate
2=JFK
3=Newark
4=Nassau or Westchester
5=Negotiated fare 6=Group ride

store_and_fwd_flag -> 	This flag indicates whether the trip record was held in vehicle memory before sending to the vendor, aka “store and forward,” because the vehicle did not have a connection to the server.

Y= store and forward trip

N= not a store and forward trip

PULocationID ->	The ID of the location from where the passenger was picked.

DOLocationID ->	The ID of the location from where the passenger was dropped.

payment_type -> A numeric code signifying how the passenger paid for the trip.

1= Credit card
2= Cash
3= No charge
4= Dispute
5= Unknown
6= Voided trip

fare_amount ->	The time-and-distance fare calculated by the meter.

extra -> Miscellaneous extras and surcharges. Currently, this only includes the $0.50 and $1 rush hour and overnight charges.

mta_tax ->	$0.50 MTA tax that is automatically triggered based on the metered rate in use.

tip_amount -> This field is automatically populated for credit card tips. Cash tips are not included.

tolls_amount -> Total amount of all tolls paid in trip.

improvement_surcharge -> $0.30 improvement surcharge assessed trips at the flag drop. The improvement surcharge began being levied in 2015.

total_amount ->	The total amount charged to passengers. Does not include cash tips.

Airport_fee -> $1.25 for pick up only at LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy Airports.

Tasks to perform on dataset are:

Data Ingestion Tasks:

Task 1. Create an RDS instance in your AWS account and upload the data to the RDS instance.
 
Task 2. Use Sqoop command to ingest the data from RDS into the HBase Table.

Task 3. Bulk import data from next two files in the dataset on your EMR cluster to your HBase Table using the relevant codes.

MapReduce Tasks:

Task 4. Write MapReduce codes to perform the tasks using the files you’ve downloaded on your EMR Instance:

a. Which vendors have the most trips, and what is the total revenue generated by that vendor?
 
b. Which pickup location generates the most revenue? 
 
c. What are the different payment types used by customers and their count? The final results should be in a sorted format.
 
d. What is the average trip time for different pickup locations?
 
e. Calculate the average tips to revenue ratio of the drivers for different pickup locations in sorted format.
 
f. How does revenue vary over time? Calculate the average trip revenue per month - analysing it by hour of the day (day vs night) and the day of the week (weekday vs weekend).
